>> Jon Kuperman: You can
display the computed styles.
So this one's really good as we're kind
of getting back towards the specificity
question.
So one thing that's important is like,
sometimes you'll go and
you'll see the styles for something.
Like if we go to maybe to the body or
something like that, and
we'll see that the body has
a few different body selectors.
This is really common, right?
Like you have your browser
provides a style sheet, right?
Like this user agent style sheet.
And then maybe use a CSS reset,
like normalize or something like that.
And that has a body selector in it,
and it adds something.
And then maybe you use Bootstrap and
so you grab Bootstrap and
that adds a body selector.
And then maybe you have your main
style.css, and that adds another one.
And then later on you do something else.
So you can kinda have all
these conflicting things.
Right?
And so one thing that's really helpful,
cuz I get a lot of tickets when I do
UI work that's like,
the border is gray on this.
It's supposed to be blue.
Right?
And then I see the thing,
it's totally gray.
It should be blue.
And I open it up and I see a thousand
selectors with a really big app.
Right, you'll see a ton of them.
So you can click.
Instead of the Styles tab,
you can click on the Computed Styles.
And the computed styles is great because
it's like, okay, ignore all that noise.
When everything's said and done, when
the browser has run all of its what should
trump what and what should be
officially in there in the information,
this is what you're left with.
And so you get this really concise
list of what margin is there?
There's zero margin.
What display is there?
It's block.
You don't have to look through all
the styles to get that information.
And then if you're wondering where
something comes from you can just go ahead
and click on this arrow.
And it'll take you back
into the styles tab.
And it'll highlight the thing
that's winning right then.
So this is a lot more helpful
on big apps where you'll have
like potentially hundreds of specificity
clashes that the browser has to
resolve.
>> Jon Kuperman: You can find event
lists in this.
This is another one that's really handy.
It sort of has deminishing returns on
a really big app because you'll end
up with so many event listeners.
But, you can click on this Event Listeners
tab, and it will show you all of the event
listeners on that document and you can go
right to the code that's triggering them.
If you have like slow
scroll performance and
you want to see,
what am I doing on scroll?
Rather than looking through all the code,
you can go to the event listeners.
You can go to the scroll event and you can
see how many you have and where they are.
So I can see I only have one.
It's on the window element and
it's right here in this code.
So if I click this it will take me to
the sources tab which is over here,
the sources panel, and
it'll show me this window at
EventListener scroll, do nothing.
But it's just a concept right, you can
see that where things are coming from.
This is handy with any kind of
event like ClickEvent, ResizeEvent,
scroll, if you know kind
of where the bug is.
I think this is like a trend we'll see a
lot in dev tools as they're really helpful
for If you don't know the code really
well, but you know the problem or
you know what you are trying to fix,
there is a lot of cool tools that will
help you easily navigate the code base.
Change color formats.
This is another nice one.
If we click on the nav element,
click on styles, we can see the color
format for this is hex, right?
It is a six digit hex code.
A lot of times design guidelines or
whatever will require that all of your
stuff be done in different color formats
like HSL or RGB or anything like that.
This kind of cool thing you can
do is you can hold shift and
you can click on one of these,
any color box and
you can cycle through all
the different color options right?
So, shift one takes me to RGB Shift again
takes me to hsl and then back to hex.
So this is true for any color format,
or however you author it,
you can hit Shift and
you can change it, view it in any way.
So, I can just copy this.
I like to work in hex.
I know a lot of them.
So, I'll write it in hex,
get the color I want,
change it to RGB, then I'll copy it and
move it in to my codebase.
Dragon drop dominos.
I don't know how useful this one is but
it's pretty cool.
So you can if we have
like two items like so
we have let's go back up
to the navigation maybe.
Nav, scroll into view and
then we'll see we have these lessons and
we have exercises right so
we've got this unordered list.
We've got these list items in it.
This one is lessons,
this one is exercises.
At any time you can take and
you can hold and click any DOM element,
like this li here, and
you can move it around.
You can kind of see, hopefully,
this little blue bar shows where it's
going to be dropped, like an Excel sheet.
And, so, you can move things around and
now it's exercises-lesson.
So, you can move different
DOM elements around.
You can also, if they're nested,
you can drag them out of your nest.
So, if it's got a div with a span in it,
you can drag that span on top
of the div and bring it out.
Visualize CSS
specificity.
So I'm not sure how many people
are familiar with specificity.
I wasn't for a really long time, but.
I'll just cover it just for
people that aren't familar with it.
So the basic concept, this is what I was
just kind of harping on which is that
like one example is like you
have two different classes.
Both apply to the same element.
So you have like div, class foo, and bar.
And your like well foo should be red.
Bar should be blue.
Whats the browser
supposed to do with that.
Another example is that you have
more specific or less specific.
Ways of grabbing elements, right?
So in CSS you can do something
like anchor tag, like a.
You can be like all anchor
tags should be blue.
And then you can have
an anchor with a class, and
you should be like well this
one should be green, right?
That's pretty common to do.
And we know, or a lot of people know,
that if you add that class it'll
trump the anchor tag selector.
And the reason why is the browser
has these specified rules of
what they call specificity.
The least specific that you can be
is just a general element selector.
So you can do all anchors should be blue
or all list items should be margin 10 or
something like that.
You can get a little bit more
specific by nesting those, right.
So you can be like all list items
inside of an unordered list and
we can see some css that
looks like this right.
So these are not all allies these are only
allies that are nested inside this class.
And then as you get more specific you
can add a class name to something.
As you get more then that you can
get nested class names right so
you can be like only the class of
bar when its in the class of foo.
You go all the way, then you can have IDs.
So IDs trump classes,
classes trump elements.
And then you go all the way
into having inline CSS.
So you can actually apply a style
tag to your list element.
LI style equals color blue.
And that's the most specific you can get.
And so it goes from elements nested
to classes to IDs to inline styles.
The one thing that kind of
can throw a wrench in that
a little bit is the important tag.
and, so, I think in a lot of big apps
we try to avoid the important tag
because of this.
A, it can cause some issues with
specificity and B, because it's usually
a good sign to take a step back and
kind of refactor your class structure.
But the important tag can bump
it up a level of specificity.
And especially when you have
two of the same specificity.
So, in the example where you have just two
classes That are arguing with each other.
The way that it will normally do it is
the one that gets parsed second will win.
But if you add an important tag to
one of them then that's the one that
will always win.
Yeah, Mike.
>> Speaker 2: There's a very in-depth look
at CSS [CROSSTALK].
>> Jon Kuperman: Yes, I love this.
Is Estelle still in the chat?
That's awesome, yes.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
Estelle's This CSS in-depth course, and
she has Specifishity.
>> Jon Kuperman: Sorry, Estella,
if I spell this wrong.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yes, this is brilliant.
So Estella, does she have classes here?
Yes.
Yeah, she has classes here.
She's awesome.
I've seen her at a bunch of converences.
She's a CSS guru.
Yes, this is really really cute.
I'm gonna steal this with
attribution if that's okay with you.
This is awesome.
So, yes, so this starts all the way
with this general wildcard selector.
So you could say all text should be blue,
elements,
nested elements, really nested elements,
classes, the same kind of thing.
This is awesome.
Yeah, so it's in the chat.
Thank you very much for sharing that.
And so what's cool on the dev tool
side is that you can use that to
kind of visualize things.
So if I go ahead and
I hover on this visualize CSS specificity,
I can see that there's multiple things
that are trying to apply color to it.
And they're being crossed out because
they're getting trumped there.
So I have a class on it, right?
Some class called a red.
And then I have this nested one, right?
So an element inside a class trumps it.
So this one is color black.
And then I have an ID on it,
this one is color purple.
So you can see that the id wins.
If you just care about what won, we can
go to computed, and we can look at color.
But if you kind of want to visualize why,
you can look this way and
you can see that the ones that lose
the specificity battle get crossed out.
You can pretty print source code, so
this one is hopping ahead a little bit.
If I go to the sources tab I think
actually all of mine might be already,
here we go, and
we've got this [INAUDIBLE].
This is really common when
you serve production code.
It's common that you kind of minify it.
So you take out all
the white space possible, so
you serve les bytes over the network.
So it'll be pretty common when debugging
production apps that you'll inspect,
you'll go to a source page and
it will just be like this thing of text,
like if you download J queary.
It's just this condensed bundle.
So there's this pretty print
button that's always here.
So you can click it and
it'll pretty print as best it can for you.
One caveat is.
A lot of the times are build pipelines
when they're doing this kind
of compression,
they also do what's called uglification.
And so uglification is again trying
to save bytes so it'll go through and
it'll like replace variables with single
letter or number variable names, right.
And so everything will get really tiny.
So the pretty print will help
visually expand that, but
it's still best not to debug on production
code if you can help it cuz you're still
gonna be Having a hard time understanding.
Like what is C.B mean,
those kind of things.